PancakeSwap-V2 | Binance Smart Chain | 25.04.2025 (#132)
deficollective/defiscan: src/content/protocols/pancakeswap-v2-bsc.md

## Accessibility

| Access route  | Details                                                                                      | Maintainer   |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| **Web UI**    | <https://pancakeswap.finance>                                                                | Pancake Labs |
| **Self-host** | MIT-licensed repo <https://github.com/pancakeswap/pancake-frontend> – build & serve anywhere | Community    |

> Accessibility score: **Medium**

# Technical Analysis

## Contracts

| Contract               | Address                                                                                                                |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| PancakeFactory         | [`0xcA143Ce32Fe78f1f7019d7d551a6402fC5350c73`](https://bscscan.com/address/0xcA143Ce32Fe78f1f7019d7d551a6402fC5350c73) |
| PancakeRouter V2       | [`0x10ED43C718714eb63d5aA57B78B54704E256024E`](https://bscscan.com/address/0x10ED43C718714eb63d5aA57B78B54704E256024E) |

> | GnosisSafe #1          | [`0xcEba60280fb0ecd9A5A26A1552B90944770a4a0e`](https://bscscan.com/address/0xcEba60280fb0ecd9A5A26A1552B90944770a4a0e) |

Reviewer: We list multisigs in the "Permission Owners" and the "Security Council" tables only

> 

Reviewer: no need, it's already stage 1

> The project could advance to Stage 2 if every critical permission concerning CAKE fee incentive distribution was irrevocably assigned to on-chain governance and protected by a long Exit Window, with multiple independent front-ends ensuring continuous user access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project could advance to Stage 2 if all critical permissions concerning `CAKE` incentive distribution were irrevocably assigned to on-chain governance and protected by a _30-day Exit Window_. In addition to those, it would require multiple independent front-ends ensuring continuous user access.
```

> PancakeSwap follows the standard Uniswap V2 pattern with the addition of a incentive layer (V1 + V2). The way they upgraded from PancakeSwap V1 to V2 the MigrationHelper was not in the scope of this review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PancakeSwap follows the standard Uniswap V2 pattern with the addition of a incentive layer (MasterChef V1, V2). The `MigrationHelper` used to upgrade from PancakeSwap V1 to V2 was not in the scope of this review.
```

# Protocol Analysis

> https://app.excalidraw.com/l/9pt8PDVB43r/k5Y6Daznbm

Reviewer: Download the png of the diagram by selecting it and => export image, **remove the background**

> PancakeFactory : Acts as the on‑chain directory and deployer for every liquidity pool. When createPair(tokenA, tokenB) is called it deterministically clones the PancakePair template and initialises the new pair. Two mutable variables govern fees: feeTo (recipient of the 0.08 % protocol cut) and feeToSetter (address allowed to change feeTo). Both can be changed with a 3‑of‑6 multisig call, making Factory the choke‑point for all AMM fee flows.

Reviewer: ⚠️⚠️ Won't that only impact new pairs? If so then there is no loss of unclaimed yield coming from the change of fees, given that it doesn't change any existing position.

If that's the case please adapt the rest of the review

## Permission owners

| Name            | Address                                                                                                                | Type         |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| PancakeFactory  | [`0xcA143Ce32Fe78f1f7019d7d551a6402fC5350c73`](https://bscscan.com/address/0xcA143Ce32Fe78f1f7019d7d551a6402fC5350c73) | Contract     |
| GnosisSafe #1   | [`0xcEba60280fb0ecd9A5A26A1552B90944770a4a0e`](https://bscscan.com/address/0xcEba60280fb0ecd9A5A26A1552B90944770a4a0e) | Multisig 3/6 |
| Timelock        | [`0xA1f482Dc58145Ba2210bC21878Ca34000E2e8fE4`](https://bscscan.com/address/0xA1f482Dc58145Ba2210bC21878Ca34000E2e8fE4) | Contract     |

> | GnosisSafe #2   | [`0xeCc90d54B10ADd1ab746ABE7E83abe178B72aa9E`](https://bscscan.com/address/0xeCc90d54B10ADd1ab746ABE7E83abe178B72aa9E) | Multisig 3/6 |

Reviewer: Are those listed in the docs? If so you can take whatever name the docs give them, and if not just "Internal Multisig"

This protocol is deployed on **BNB Smart Chain**; if the chain halts, censors transactions, or suffers prolonged congestion, every swap, liquidity movement, and MasterChef call is blocked. In such an outage the protocol’s pools become illiquid and the emission schedule pauses because new CAKE cannot be minted on a stalled L1.

> All mutable parameters pass through two **Gnosis Safe 3-of-6 multisigs**. If a quorum cannot be reached—because keys are lost, signers go offline, or signatures are withheld—routine updates such as adding a new farm or adjusting emission rates become impossible. Conversely, if an attacker compromises three keys, they can immediately redirect the 0.08 % protocol fee or the full CAKE emission stream; the optional timelock offers no protection against direct multisig calls in MasterChef V1.

Reviewer: Those aren't dependencies. Here you explain the technical details of what is mentioned in the "Autonomy" section

| MasterChefV2   | add               | Creates a new farm with arbitrary allocation points. This reshapes CAKE distribution and can siphon rewards from existing pools. A malicious owner could add a “ghost” pool with zero real liquidity that captures 100 % of emissions.                                                    | Timelock `0xA1f482Dc…e8fE4`     |
| MasterChefV2   | set               | Rewrites `allocPoint` of any existing pool. This re-weights how CAKE emissions are shared. A hostile change could drop public pools to near-zero rewards and funnel emissions to insider pools.                                                                                           | Timelock `0xA1f482Dc…e8fE4`     |
| MasterChefV2   | updateCakeRate    | Updates the percentages sent to burn, regular, and special farms. This alters CAKE’s inflation schedule. Setting burn rate to 0 % while doubling farm rewards would inflate supply rapidly and erode token value.                                                                         | Timelock `0xA1f482Dc…e8fE4`     |

> | MasterChefV2   | burnCake          | Transfers accumulated CAKE to the `burnAdmin` address. Intended to reduce supply, it actually sends tokens to whatever address is set. If that address is switched to an attacker wallet, “burns” become free payouts.                                                                    | Timelock `0xA1f482Dc…e8fE4`     |

Reviewer: Would be good to mention the burn recipient is actually one of the multisigs at the moment

| MasterChefV2   | transferOwnership | Writes a new `owner` for MasterChefV2. Control over emissions, pool lists, and admin settings moves with it. Transferring to a rogue EOA would let a single key redirect or freeze all farming rewards.                                                                                   | Timelock `0xA1f482Dc…e8fE4`     |
| Timelock       | setDelay          | Changes the global execution delay for queued governance calls. This defines the minimum exit window for users. Dropping the delay to the 6-hour minimum gives LPs little time to react to hostile proposals.                                                                             | Timelock itself                 |

> | CakeToken      | mint              | Calls `_mint`, increasing total CAKE supply and sending tokens to any address. This is the root of all farming emissions. MasterChef V1 is the only contract that can call this mint function, it is a fixed 40 CAKE per block mint maximum int MasterChef's logic.                       | MasterChef V1 `0x73feaa1e…e24E` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CakeToken      | mint              | Calls `_mint`, increasing total CAKE supply and sending tokens to any address. This is the root of all farming emissions. MasterChef V1 is the only contract that can call this mint function, it is a fixed 40 CAKE per block mint maximum inside MasterChef's logic.                       | MasterChef V1 `0x73feaa1e…e24E` |
```

| CakeToken      | transferOwnership | Assigns a new owner with full mint authority. Control of CAKE inflation moves entirely to the new address. If passed to a malicious contract, unlimited CAKE could be minted, destroying token economics. It is uncallable function since MasterChef V1 functions have no way to call it. | MasterChef V1 `0x73feaa1e…e24E` |

## Dependencies

| Dependency          | Type     | Risk if it fails                                                       |
| ------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Binance Smart Chain | L1 chain | All swaps & CAKE emission halt                                         |
| CAKE token          | ERC-20   | Reward flow stops                                                      |

> | GnosisSafe multisig | Admin    | Parameter changes blocked, protocol fee's and CAKE emissions hijacked, |

Reviewer: Please also use full sentences in this section. The goal here is to go in more technical details than in ## Autonomy

| **Timelock → MasterChefV2**<br>`add / set / updateCakeRate / burnCake(...)` | Creates or reprioritises farms, changes CAKE emission splits and burn rate | 3-of-6 multisig via Timeloc√√k | ≥ 6 h – ≤ 30 d                | 14 d, currently 8 hours | Withdraw or migrate staked LPs                                                 |
| **Multisig → MasterChefV1**<br>`dev(...)` (10 % mint share)                 | Changes the developer address that receives 10 % of every CAKE mint        | 3-of-6 multisig (direct)       | 0 s                           | —                       | LPs can still harvest/withdraw but inflation share can be redirected instantly |

**Practical implications**

- **User funds in pools** – `PancakePair` contracts are immutable; LPs can redeem liquidity at any time. Changing the protocol-fee address only affects fee distribution, not principal.
- **Staked funds in MasterChef V1/V2** – Deposits and withdrawals remain permission-less, so users can exit as soon as they notice an unfavourable governance queue. The _effective_ exit window is therefore the Timelock delay (**≥ 6 h**).

> - **No freeze switch** – There is no guardian pause; the risk is dilution of CAKE rewards rather than loss or lock-up of tokens.

Reviewer: I really appreciate how thorough this is but its doesn't exactly match our framework. It would be great if you could have distinct (short) paragraph for each of the 3 paths instead of table and bullet points.
